hello everyone my name is Bill I just
wanted to quickly show you how to use a
lens flare rig that I built I built it
with this scene in mind this earth kind
of talked over on its side and you can
see that the Sun is kind of glaring in
from the year to hear it looks pretty
good on its own but to really sell the
image we could use a lens flare mention
the Sun is just out of frame up here and
kind of glaring down this way in order
to make that work I decided to go ahead
built a rig while blunders compositing
nodes are pretty good especially the
glare nodes etc they have to have an
existing pixels to work with and if your
son is just out of frame you really
don't have any pixels to work with so
first thing we're going to do is we're
going to come into our San we're going
to append the rig append we're going to
find our lens flare file I'm going to
come into scene and we're going to go to
lens flare let's go ahead and link it in
now we'll go to our node editor and as
you can see here we have all the nodes
that made this scene possible and it's
really not terribly complex and we're
going to add in a node group that we got
from our lens flare scene you'll see we
have that scene right there and I go to
add group lens flare Angie and ng just
stands for node group and drop it right
onto the viewer now you'll notice here
you've got this underlying image or
render layer and that's this default
backdrop and then we've got this flare
geometry now we're going to get that
also as a part of the scene we're going
to add render layers
I'm going to go to the lens flare scene
and we're just going to drag and drop
that over onto there now we still don't
have the lens flare as you can see and
there's a couple of reasons for that
first of all I'm going to go to the 3d
view so you can see what the lens flare
actually looks like yeah there it is
from camera perspective if I were to
look at it from the side you can see
that we've got just a few elements here
here we have our imaginary so and we
have some rays for it to cast off we've
got this back glaring disc thing we have
some hexagonal elements here all of them
are tied to this string of vertices it's
just an edge it won't render then when
you move it around by just rotating it
along this controls axes the x and z if
you look here in this lens flare seen in
your outliner you'll see you've got the
excellence flower control and i also
have a circular one it's actually hiding
on layer 1 here's the circular one and
it's just flat it's all ready for you to
create your own pose with the when I was
easing is this hex one which we already
have set to looking kind of cool but
it's not quite perfect yet we are going
to move it along the x-axis rotate it
just a little bit long as Z and since I
want these bottom flower elements to be
kind of kissing the bottom of the frame
I'm going to go ahead and scale this
thing along its local y axis hitting
wide twice and they'll bring those out
these elements are vertex parented to
this edge and will keep their elements
orthogonal with the camera and that's an
important thing to note and that you
don't want a flare element to appear
like it's going that's skewed against
the camera
look right so we're going to go back to
our now we've got this positioned we're
going to go back to our earth scene well
go into our nose and we still don't have
this flare because we haven't rendered
the node elements now this is actually a
full render of the earth sea and I'm
just kind of adding in my own
compositing layers here so it's going to
render the lens flare elements all by
themselves it's not going to reenter
your entire Earth scene if it did you
know this particular scene takes about
an hour and a half on my computer to
render and once it's done with its
render its going to go through the
compositing stage now it didn't pop up
here because I'm actually tied it in yet
to the composite output only to the view
our output I'll drag this composite over
connect it up so we'll be able to see it
there as well and we'll wait for this
compositing step to finish it should
just take a few seconds
and there you go and see we move this
around and holding down alt in middle
mouse button to move the backdrop around
and if I flip over to our you PM is
editor you can see here it is fully done
and there's a few minor controls that we
have on the node group itself if I flip
back to the node editor the flare
brightness control and the globe
brightness control the flare brightness
controls the brightness of the
individual elements the glare brightness
is the practice of the glare go fig so
if we wanted to brighten these up right
now they are set I think two point six
and one so if we really wanted to play
with that we could say bring our flare
brightness all the way up to say 1.2 and
our globe brightness up to say one point
seven or so and let those composite
let's compositing i'm just going to
reposition in these nodes so if they're
kind of out of the way and there we go
you can see these brightened up so you
can really just play with those into
your heart's content now that's not the
only way to use this Flair Ric you can
also open with the rig itself see I've
got some notes for you here but by
default if you go over to its node
editor you'll see I've got an image
input if all you want to do is add the
lens flare nodes on to this image there
you go you just load up your previous
render into this image editor or this
image input and it overlays them lets
you do whatever you need to with it and
there you have it that's how you use the
lens flare rig for cycles